# Contributing to Cerbos

Thank you for your interest in Cerbos. We welcome contributions from the community. Please note that we have a [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) that must be followed when interacting with this project. In addition, please read the guidelines below to ensure that your contributions have a better chance of being accepted.

## Submitting pull requests

- Before submitting a pull request, please raise an issue in the GitHub repository and provide information about the problem you are trying to fix and how you plan to address it. Include as much detail as possible to make it easier for others to understand your thought process.
- Wait for the project maintainers and other community members to respond to your proposal and clearly agree on a course of action.
- Create your patch, constraining yourself to what was agreed on the issue. If previously unforeseen problems arise and you have to make significant changes to an area that wasn’t discussed in the issue, make sure to go back to the issue to discuss the new circumstances and get buy-in from the people who are involved.
- Run the pre-commit checks that are appropriate for the kind of change.
- Submit your pull request. Use the [closing keywords](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue#linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue-using-a-keyword) to link the PR to the original issue.
- At least one approval from a maintainer is required to merge the pull request.
- Sign-off your commits to provide a [DCO](https://developercertificate.org). You can do this by adding the `-s` flag to your `git commit` command.
  ```console
  $ git commit -s -m 'Fix for bug X'
  ```

### AI assistance policy

Our policy on AI-assisted changes is the same as the one adopted by the [Ghostty project](https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/blob/1efde5caba2d9f1fbd3e3f1a100f341feca095b4/CONTRIBUTING.md#ai-assistance-notice), which is reproduced below with minor edits.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> If you are using **any kind of AI assistance** to contribute to Cerbos, **this must be disclosed in the pull request**.

Explain the extent to which AI assistance was used (e.g. docs only vs. code generation).
If PR responses are being generated by an AI, disclose that as well.
As a small exception, trivial tab-completion doesn't need to be disclosed, so long as it is limited to single keywords or short phrases.

An example disclosure:

> This PR was written primarily by Claude Code.

Or a more detailed disclosure:

> I consulted ChatGPT to understand the codebase but the solution was fully authored manually by myself.

Failure to disclose this is first and foremost rude to the human operators on the other end of the pull request, but it also makes it difficult to determine how much scrutiny to apply to the contribution.

When using AI assistance, we expect contributors to understand the code that is produced and be able to answer critical questions about it.
It isn't a maintainers job to review a PR so broken that it requires significant rework to be acceptable.

Please be respectful to maintainers and disclose AI assistance.

## Getting help

- [Read the documentation](https://docs.cerbos.dev)
- Post a question in the [discussion forum](https://github.com/cerbos/cerbos/discussions)
- Join our [Slack community](http://go.cerbos.io/slack)
- Email us at help@cerbos.dev
- Visit our website at https://cerbos.dev
